[Guide] Enroll personally owned (BYOD) iOS/iPadOS devices with work email (Managed Apple Account) (#31239)
fleetdm/fleet: articles/enroll-personal-byod-ios-ipad-hosts-with-managed-apple-account.md

# Enroll personal (BYOD) iPhones and iPads with Managed Apple Account

_Available in Fleet Premium._

> To enroll personal iPhones and iPads using [Account-driven User Enrollment](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/deployment/dep23db2037d/web), and provide a seamless experience for your end users, follow the steps below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Fleet, you can allow your end users to enroll their personal iPhones and iPads to Fleet using [Account-driven User Enrollment](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/deployment/dep23db2037d/web).
```

Suggested clean up.

> This approach enables both a Managed Apple Account and a personal Apple Account to be signed in on the same device, ensuring complete separation of work profile and personal data. Users retain privacy over their personal information, while IT manages work-related OS settings and applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Account-driven User Enrollment end users can separate work and personal data using their [Managed Apple Accounts](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/apple-business-manager/axm78b477c81/web). End users retain privacy over their personal information, while IT admins manage work-related OS settings and applications.
```

Copy tweaks. Emphasize the why (separate data) which you explained well.

Thoughts?

- [Step 1: Connect Apple Business Manager (ABM) to Fleet](#step-1-connect-apple-business-manager-abm-to-fleet)
- [Step 2: Add and verify your domain in Apple Business Manager (ABM)](#step-2-add-and-verify-your-domain-in-apple-business-manager-abm)

> - [Step 3: Federate your IdP accounts to Apple Business Manager (ABM)](#step-3-federate-your-idp-accounts-to-apple-business-manager-ab)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Step 3: Sync (federate) user accounts in identity provider (IdP) with Apple Business Manager (ABM)](#step-3-federate-your-idp-accounts-to-apple-business-manager-ab)
```

"Federate" isn't friendly to new folks in IT. Took me a day to understand it just means "sync". It's another word for sync right?

Author: @noahtalerman Actually it's not same. In ABM you can federate without sync, meaning that you just enable end users to log in with IdP credentials in Apple Managed Account and Apple Managed Account is added in ABM once user logs in. Sync uses SCIM protocol to pull users from IdP to ABM upfront.

It's described in [Apple docs](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/apple-business-manager/axmb19317543/web).

## Step 2: Add and verify your domain in Apple Business Manager (ABM)

Follow the [Apple documentation](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/apple-business-manager/axm48c3280c0/web#axm2033c47b0) to add and verify your company domain in your ABM. Use the domain name associated with your work email (for example, yourcompany.com from name@yourcompany.com). This will enable the automatic creation of Apple Managed Accounts from your identity provider (IdP) accounts in the next step.

## Step 3: Federate your IdP accounts to Apple Business Manager (ABM)

Follow the [Apple documentation](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/apple-business-manager/axmb19317543/web) o connect your identity provider (IdP). This will enable end users to log in to their Managed Apple Account using their existing IdP credentials.

You can watch these videos as well:
 - [Connect Google Workspace to ABM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CPfO6W67d3A)
 - [Connect Microsoft Entra ID to ABM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_-PnhMurAVk)

## Step 4: Host service discovery file (optional)

> Fleet manages service discovery for hosts running iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 and later. For hosts below these versions, you must self-host the service discovery JSON file on your company domain, which you added to ABM in the previous step. This file directs personal hosts to the MDM server for enrollment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your iOS/iPadOS hosts are running OS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 and later, you can skip this step. Fleet manages service discovery for hosts running iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 and later. 

For hosts below these versions, you must self-host the service discovery JSON file on your company domain, which you added to ABM in the previous step. This file directs personal hosts to the MDM server for enrollment.
```

Clarify that you can skip this if you're 18.2 or greater.

The server must return JSON file below with `Content-Type` header set to `application/json`.

```json
{
  "Servers": [
    {
      "Version": "mdm-byod",
      "BaseURL": "https://<fleet_server_url>/...TODO..."
    }
  ]
}
```
## Step 5: Login to enroll to Fleet (end user experience)

Ask your end users to go to **Settings > General > VPN & Device Management > Sign In to Work or School Account...** and log in using their IdP credentials.

## Inventory and OS settings limitations

- Fleet does not have access to the serial numbers of personal hosts due to Apple's privacy limitations.

> - For personal hosts, Fleet can only inventory applications from the work profile.

Author: @allenhouchins Noah and I were thinking of using "work profile" as Fleet's term for all platforms. The other option was to have "work partition" as cross platform term. I know it's an Android term, but it works similarly on iOS.

Do you think this might confuse Mac admins?

> - For personal hosts, Fleet can only inventory applications from the work profile.

Author: @patgmac, thank you for your detailed feedback—I really appreciate it! We aimed to use cross-platform terminology to make the interface more consistent and easier to understand for users managing devices across different platforms, like Apple and Android.
That said, I completely understand the importance of using precise terminology, especially in the Apple ecosystem. We will review the terminology around "work," "partition," and others to ensure accuracy and respect for Apple’s conventions.

cc @noahtalerman

With Account-driven User Enrollment, end users can separate work and personal data using their [Managed Apple Account](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/apple-business-manager/axm78b477c81/web). End users retain privacy over their personal information, while IT admins manage work-related OS settings and applications.

- [Step 1: Connect Apple Business Manager (ABM) to Fleet](#step-1-connect-apple-business-manager-abm-to-fleet)
- [Step 2: Add and verify your domain in Apple Business Manager (ABM)](#step-2-add-and-verify-your-domain-in-apple-business-manager-abm)
- [Step 3: Federate your IdP accounts to Apple Business Manager (ABM)](#step-3-federate-your-idp-accounts-to-apple-business-manager-ab)
- [Step 4: Host a service discovery file](#step-4-host-service-discovery-file-optional)
- [Step 5: Login to enroll to Fleet (end user experience)](#step-5-login-to-enroll-to-fleet-end-user-experience)

## Step 1: Connect Apple Business Manager (ABM) to Fleet

1. Follow the [instructions](https://fleetdm.com/guides/macos-mdm-setup#apple-business-manager-abm) to connect ABM to Fleet.
2. If you have already connected ABM to enable automatic enrollment, skip the previous step. 

> 3. Ensure that personal (BYOD) iOS and iPadOS devices are associated with Fleet in **Default Server Assignment** section for User Enrollment to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Ensure that personal (BYOD) iOS and iPadOS hosts are associated with Fleet in **Default Server Assignment** section for User Enrollment to work.
```

I think we stick with hosts to be consistent.

# Enroll personal (BYOD) iPhones and iPads with Managed Apple Account

![Apple Account-driven User Enrollment (BYOD)](../website/assets/images/articles/apple-account-driven-user-enrollment.png)

_Available in Fleet Premium._

In Fleet, you can allow your end users to enroll their personal iPhones and iPads to Fleet using [Account-driven User Enrollment](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/deployment/dep23db2037d/web).

With Account-driven User Enrollment, end users can separate work and personal data using their [Managed Apple Account](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/apple-business-manager/axm78b477c81/web). End users retain privacy over their personal information, while IT admins manage work-related OS settings and applications.

- [Step 1: Connect Apple Business Manager (ABM) to Fleet](#step-1-connect-apple-business-manager-abm-to-fleet)
- [Step 2: Add and verify your domain in Apple Business Manager (ABM)](#step-2-add-and-verify-your-domain-in-apple-business-manager-abm)
- [Step 3: Connect (federate) your identity provider (IdP) with Apple Business Manager (ABM)](#step-3-connect-federate-your-identity-provider-idp-with-apple-business-manager-abm)

> - [Step 4: Create a `📱🔐 Personal mobile devices` team](#step-4-create-personal-mobile-devices-team)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Step 4: Create a `📱🔐 Personal mobile devices` team](#step-4-create-a-code-personal-mobile-devices-code-team)
```

Looks like the fleetdm.com website expects "code" in the anchor link when there are backticks (`) in the section header.

Reminder to test guides locally! https://fleetdm.com/handbook/it-and-enablement#test-fleetdm-com-locally

## Step 3: Connect (federate) your identity provider (IdP) with Apple Business Manager (ABM)

Follow the [Apple documentation](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/apple-business-manager/axmb19317543/web) to connect your identity provider (IdP). This will enable end users to log in to their Managed Apple Account using their existing IdP credentials.

You can watch these videos as well:
 - [Connect Google Workspace to ABM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CPfO6W67d3A)
 - [Connect Microsoft Entra ID to ABM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_-PnhMurAVk)

## Step 4: Create a `📱🔐 Personal mobile devices` team.

Fleet's [best practice](https://fleetdm.com/guides/teams#best-practice) is to create team for personal hosts that have access to a company resources.

In this team you can add custom OS settings that are compatible with hosts enrolled with Acount-driven User Enrollment. To find out which payloads are compatible with User Enrollment, visit the [Apple documentation](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/deployment/dep6ae3f1d5a/1/web/1.0).

## Step 5: Login to enroll to Fleet (end user experience)

> Ask your end users to go to **Settings > General > VPN & Device Management > Sign In to Work or School Account...** and log in using their IdP credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ask your end users to go to **Settings > General > VPN & Device Management > Sign In to Work or School Account...** and log in using their IdP credentials.

When they login, their iOS/iPadOS host will enroll to Fleet.
```

You can watch these videos as well:
 - [Connect Google Workspace to ABM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CPfO6W67d3A)
 - [Connect Microsoft Entra ID to ABM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_-PnhMurAVk)

## Step 4: Create a `📱🔐 Personal mobile devices` team.

Fleet's [best practice](https://fleetdm.com/guides/teams#best-practice) is to create team for personal hosts that have access to a company resources.

In this team you can add custom OS settings that are compatible with hosts enrolled with Acount-driven User Enrollment. To find out which payloads are compatible with User Enrollment, visit the [Apple documentation](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/deployment/dep6ae3f1d5a/1/web/1.0).

## Step 5: Login to enroll to Fleet (end user experience)

Ask your end users to go to **Settings > General > VPN & Device Management > Sign In to Work or School Account...** and log in using their IdP credentials.

When they login, their iOS/iPadOS host will enroll to Fleet.

## Self-host a service discovery file (well-known resource)

> If your iOS/iPadOS hosts are running OS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 and later, you can skip this step. Fleet manages service discovery for hosts running iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 and later. If you are trialing Fleet and testing Account-driven enrollment use this method for all hosts. 
> 
> For hosts below these versions, you must self-host the [service discovery JSON file](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/deployment/dep4d9e9cd26/web#depcae01b5df) on your company domain, which you added to ABM in the previous step. This file directs personal hosts to the MDM server for enrollment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If your iOS/iPadOS hosts are running iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 and later, you can skip need this. Fleet manages service discovery for hosts running iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 and later. 

If your iOS/iPadOS hosts are below iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 or you're trialing Fleet and testing Account-driven enrollment you want to self-host a [service discovery JSON file](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/deployment/dep4d9e9cd26/web#depcae01b5df) on your company domain. You added your domain to ABM in a [previous step](http://fleetdm.com/guides/enroll-personal-byod-ios-ipad-hosts-with-managed-apple-account#step-2-add-and-verify-your-domain-in-apple-business-manager-abm). This file directs personal hosts to the Fleet.

```

 - [Connect Google Workspace to ABM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CPfO6W67d3A)
 - [Connect Microsoft Entra ID to ABM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_-PnhMurAVk)

## Step 4: Create a `📱🔐 Personal mobile devices` team.

Fleet's [best practice](https://fleetdm.com/guides/teams#best-practice) is to create team for personal hosts that have access to a company resources.

In this team you can add custom OS settings that are compatible with hosts enrolled with Acount-driven User Enrollment. To find out which payloads are compatible with User Enrollment, visit the [Apple documentation](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/deployment/dep6ae3f1d5a/1/web/1.0).

## Step 5: Login to enroll to Fleet (end user experience)

Ask your end users to go to **Settings > General > VPN & Device Management > Sign In to Work or School Account...** and log in using their IdP credentials.

When they login, their iOS/iPadOS host will enroll to Fleet.

## Self-host a service discovery file (well-known resource)

If your iOS/iPadOS hosts are running iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 and later, you can skip need this. Fleet manages service discovery for hosts running iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 and later. 

> If your iOS/iPadOS hosts are below iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 or you're trialing Fleet and testing Account-driven enrollment you want to self-host a [service discovery JSON file](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/deployment/dep4d9e9cd26/web#depcae01b5df) on your company domain. You added your domain to ABM in a [previous step](http://fleetdm.com/guides/enroll-personal-byod-ios-ipad-hosts-with-managed-apple-account#step-2-add-and-verify-your-domain-in-apple-business-manager-abm). This file directs personal hosts to the Fleet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your iOS/iPadOS hosts are below iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 or you're trying Fleet and testing Account-driven User Enrollment you want to self-host a [service discovery JSON file](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/deployment/dep4d9e9cd26/web#depcae01b5df) on your company domain. You added your domain to ABM in a [previous step](http://fleetdm.com/guides/enroll-personal-byod-ios-ipad-hosts-with-managed-apple-account#step-2-add-and-verify-your-domain-in-apple-business-manager-abm). This file directs personal hosts to the Fleet.
```

> If your iOS/iPadOS hosts are below iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 or you're trying Fleet and testing Account-driven User Enrollment you want to self-host a [service discovery JSON file](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/deployment/dep4d9e9cd26/web#depcae01b5df) on your company domain. You added your domain to ABM in a [previous step](http://fleetdm.com/guides/enroll-personal-byod-ios-ipad-hosts-with-managed-apple-account#step-2-add-and-verify-your-domain-in-apple-business-manager-abm). This file directs personal hosts to the Fleet.
> 
> The server must return JSON file below with `Content-Type` header set to `application/json`.
> 
> ```json
> {
>   "Servers": [
>     {
>       "Version": "mdm-byod",
>       "BaseURL": "https://<fleet_server_url>/...TODO..."
>     }
>   ]
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your iOS/iPadOS hosts are below iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 or you're trying Fleet and testing Account-driven User Enrollment you want to self-host a [service discovery JSON file](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/deployment/dep4d9e9cd26/web#depcae01b5df) on your company domain. You added your domain to ABM in a [previous step](http://fleetdm.com/guides/enroll-personal-byod-ios-ipad-hosts-with-managed-apple-account#step-2-add-and-verify-your-domain-in-apple-business-manager-abm). This file directs personal hosts to the Fleet.

The server must return JSON file below with `Content-Type` header set to `application/json`.

```json
{
  "Servers": [
    {
      "Version": "mdm-byod",
      "BaseURL": "https://<company_url>/.well-known/com.apple.remotemanagement"
    }
  ]
}
```

When they login, their iOS/iPadOS host will enroll to Fleet.

## Self-host a service discovery file (well-known resource)

If your iOS/iPadOS hosts are running iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 and later, you can skip need this. Fleet manages service discovery for hosts running iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 and later. 

If your iOS/iPadOS hosts are below iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 or you're trying Fleet, you have to self-host a [service discovery JSON file](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/deployment/dep4d9e9cd26/web#depcae01b5df).

If you're trying Fleet and using a different MDM solution in production, hosting this file will direct only Account-driven User Enrollments to the Fleet. iOS/iPadOS hosts purchased in ABM and hosts that use an enrollment profile will still enroll to your current MDM solution.

Host this JSON file below at the following URL: `https://<company_domain>/.well-known/com.apple.remotemanagement.`

Make sure the `Content-Type` header is set to `application/json`.

```json
{
  "Servers": [
    {
      "Version": "mdm-byod",
      "BaseURL": "https://<fleet_server_url>/api/mdm/apple/account_driven_enroll"
    }
  ]
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: That looks correct!

If you're trying Fleet and using a different MDM solution in production, hosting this file will direct only Account-driven User Enrollments to the Fleet. iOS/iPadOS hosts purchased in ABM and hosts that use an enrollment profile will still enroll to your current MDM solution.

Host this JSON file below at the following URL: `https://<company_domain>/.well-known/com.apple.remotemanagement.`

Make sure the `Content-Type` header is set to `application/json`.

```json
{
  "Servers": [
    {
      "Version": "mdm-byod",
      "BaseURL": "https://<fleet_server_url>/api/mdm/apple/account_driven_enroll"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Host vitals limitations

Apple limits the amount of host vitals Fleet can collect on personal iOS/iPadOS hosts. Fleet can't collect hosts' serial numbers. Also, software inventory only includes applications installed by Fleet.

<meta name="articleTitle" value="Account-driven User Enrollment for personal Apple devices (BYOD)">
<meta name="authorFullName" value="Marko Lisica">
<meta name="authorGitHubUsername" value="marko-lisica">
<meta name="category" value="guides">

> <meta name="publishedOn" value="2025-08-01">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<meta name="publishedOn" value="2025-08-08">
```

> # Account-drive User Enrollment for personal Apple devices (BYOD)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Account-driven User Enrollment for personal Apple devices (BYOD)
```

- [Step 1: Connect Apple Business Manager (ABM) to Fleet](#step-1-connect-apple-business-manager-abm-to-fleet)
- [Step 2: Add and verify your domain in Apple Business Manager (ABM)](#step-2-add-and-verify-your-domain-in-apple-business-manager-abm)
- [Step 3: Connect (federate) your identity provider (IdP) with Apple Business Manager (ABM)](#step-3-connect-federate-your-identity-provider-idp-with-apple-business-manager-abm)
- [Step 4: Create a `📱🔐 Personal mobile devices` team](#step-4-create-a-code-personal-mobile-devices-code-team)
- [Step 5: Login to enroll to Fleet (end user experience)](#step-5-login-to-enroll-to-fleet-end-user-experience)

## Step 1: Connect Apple Business Manager (ABM) to Fleet

1. Follow the [instructions](https://fleetdm.com/guides/macos-mdm-setup#apple-business-manager-abm) to connect ABM to Fleet.
2. If you have already connected ABM to enable automatic enrollment, skip the previous step. 

> 3. For User Enrollment to work, ensure that personal (BYOD) iOS and iPadOS hosts are associated with Fleet in the **Default Server Assignment** section. If you're trying Fleet and testing Account-driven enrollment, [self-host a service discovery file](#self-host-a-service-discovery-file-well-known-resource) instead. That way, hosts keep enrolling to your current MDM solution instead of Fleet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. For Account-driven User Enrollment to work, ensure that personal (BYOD) iOS and iPadOS hosts are associated with Fleet in the **Default Server Assignment** section. If you're trying Fleet and testing Account-driven User Enrollment, [self-host a service discovery file](#self-host-a-service-discovery-file-well-known-resource) instead. That way, hosts keep enrolling to your current MDM solution instead of Fleet.
```

Fleet's [best practice](https://fleetdm.com/guides/teams#best-practice) is to create team for personal hosts that have access to a company resources.

In this team you can add custom OS settings that are compatible with hosts enrolled with Acount-driven User Enrollment. To find out which payloads are compatible with User Enrollment, visit the [Apple documentation](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/deployment/dep6ae3f1d5a/1/web/1.0).

## Step 5: Login to enroll to Fleet (end user experience)

Ask your end users to go to **Settings > General > VPN & Device Management > Sign In to Work or School Account...** and log in using their IdP credentials.

When they login, their iOS/iPadOS host will enroll to Fleet.

## Self-host a service discovery file (well-known resource)

If your iOS/iPadOS hosts are running iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 and later, you can skip need this. Fleet manages service discovery for hosts running iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 and later. 

If your iOS/iPadOS hosts are below iOS 18.2/iPadOS 18.2 or you're trying Fleet, you have to self-host a [service discovery JSON file](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/deployment/dep4d9e9cd26/web#depcae01b5df).

> If you're trying Fleet and using a different MDM solution in production, hosting this file will direct only Account-driven user enrollments to the Fleet. iOS/iPadOS hosts purchased in ABM and hosts that use an enrollment profile will still enroll to your current MDM solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're trying Fleet and using a different MDM solution in production, hosting this file will direct only Account-driven User Enrollments to the Fleet. iOS/iPadOS hosts purchased in ABM and hosts that use an enrollment profile will still enroll to your current MDM solution.
```

Host this JSON file below at the following URL: `https://<company_domain>/.well-known/com.apple.remotemanagement.`

Make sure the `Content-Type` header is set to `application/json`.

```json
{
  "Servers": [
    {
      "Version": "mdm-byod",
      "BaseURL": "https://<fleet_server_url>/api/mdm/apple/account_driven_enroll"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Inventory limitations

- Fleet does not have access to the serial numbers of personal hosts due to Apple's privacy limitations.

> - For personal hosts, Fleet can only inventory applications from the work profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For personal hosts, Fleet can only inventory applications installed by Fleet.
```

I like @allenhouchins's suggestion. The language cross-platform. I switched "MDM" to "Fleet"

> <meta name="articleTitle" value="Account-drive User Enrollment for personal Apple devices (BYOD)">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<meta name="articleTitle" value="Account-driven User Enrollment for personal Apple devices (BYOD)">
```

> <meta name="articleTitle" value="Enroll personal (BYOD) iPhones and iPads with Managed Apple Account">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<meta name="articleTitle" value="Account-drive User Enrollment for personal Apple devices (BYOD)">
```
